---
layout: post
title: Introduction 
tags:
- research project
- extempore
- live coding
- visualisation

---

2014 will be the fourth year of my Software Engineering degree and this year I will be taking on a year long research project. This blog will attempt to capture at least some of my thoughts and decisions through the year throughout this research project, hopefully keeping my thoughts organised. By the end of the year I hope to use it as a reference for building an argument for my thesis while also providing a (hopefully) valuable resource for you, the reader. Just to keep it interesting though, I will throw in a few additional side-projects I get involved with along the way.

The research project will be focussing on developing visualisations for code but will investigate this area within the field of live music performance. I will be using [Extempore](http://extempore.moso.com.au) as the technical tool for the visualisations and working with [Ben Swift](http://benswift.me) as the musician.

Extempore is a live coding environment targeting [live coding](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Live_coding) musical performance but with the capacity to simultaneously show visuals. Live coding is the process of coding for an audience, developing an interesting program with an artistic goal. The usual output of live coding is music but I hope to move some of the focus into interesting visuals.

I hope you find this blog interesting or at least useful as I present interesting findings and develop my ideas.
